---
slug: welcome-to-the-imperial-blog
title: Welcome to the Imperial Blog
authors: [aries]
---

Howdy.

As I'm sure many of you have noticed, this website is primarily written in-character from the perspective of Ulmina. The blog section, however, will likely ride the line between out-of-character and in-character pretty loosely.

<!--truncate-->

## A New Beginning

I've tried making this website multiple times. I tried a custom-written one, I tried WordPress, I tried Squarespace, etc. and now we're using Docusaurus and honestly, I'm hoping this is the last time we change. I'm tried of re-making this site, so please ensure you yell at me if I even talk about remaking this.

## What to Expect

That's kind of hard to say right now, but probably only because I'm over thinking it. Really, if any of the other content has to be added, I'd be surprised, since this website should focus strictly on my blogging. Though I may also add a gallery section for all the art I've commissioned (assuming I can come up with a nice way to present the art while still crediting all the artists).

When it comes to these blogs, I think you'll probably see the occassional dive into my mental health and oppinionated views of the world. For all I know, these may just be text versions of things and topics that could eventually become YouTube videos.

## A Note on Interaction

This website represents an in-character portrayal of a fictional sovereign. The Empire of Avinadal is a creation of imagination; a science-fantasy universe brought to life through storytelling via personal and community contributions.

I encourage you to engage with this content as you would any creative work: with willing suspension of disbelief and appreciation for the craft of worldbuilding.

Please also understand that while I do take on the Villanite persona as my own, Aries Villanite is still only a fictional character and his opinions, thoughts, and morals are in no way direct reflections of my own.

I think that's all I can really think to say on this first blog post, so I'll end it here. I don't think I have a particular call to action, but if you want to interact, please feel free to look over the Links page and reach out where you're most comfortable.